# EZ Diffusion Model Simulation and Recovery

In this developed code according to the EZ diffusion Model, simulation and recovery tests were applied and the results were recorded. The test is based on simulated parameters of boundary separation, drift rate and nondecision time. In a complete cycle of simulation and recovery the code is divided into forward code and inverse code, each corresponds to mechanisms of the simulation process and recovery process. In the simulation process, forward code, the simulated parameters will be implemented to predict the summary statistics, accuracy rate, mean response time, variance response time, and numbers of correct trials. In the recovery process, the inverse codes will be activated to inversely predict the initial parameters using the simulated summary statistics. one thousand cycles will be simulated and after each cycle, the b values, estimated bias and squared errors will be recorded.

The initial simulated parameters will each be limited to a range, boundary separation and drift rate will be between 0.5 and 2, and nondecision time will be limited to 0.1 and 0.5. An observation number value, N, will be added to the parameters to see the difference between the error values. The N value will each time be 10, 40 and 4000, and by implementing this parameter, we should be seeing a trend of squared error getting smaller each time we increase the N value. As a result of this simulation and recovery exercise, I observed that the average estimating biases are close to 0 from trials to trials. In some trials it can be as low as 0.0001, but at most this will never be larger than 1. Another result of this simulation is that as I increase the N values, I received smaller and smaller squared error values. However, this is not absolute, by running over 50 trials of simulating parameter 1000 times, I do find that sometimes larger N squared error is not smaller than smaller N squared errors. But this is only a small fraction of total trials. 

In result, I think it is enough to say that this model can predict both forward and inversely in an acceptable degree. About 70% of the bias values are approximately 2 decimal places tolerance close to zero and over 80% of the squared error is following the trend that larger N leads to smaller squared error. It is enough to conclude that if the values that are generated by this model, then estimation can recover the values accurately. 

One additional comment about this code is that when defining simulate_parameter function, if I add the “self” argument into the function, the R_obs term will be corroded. Even though the value of it is 0.85 or some other small numbers, it will falsely say that 0.85 is greater than 1. Even if I wrote “R_obs = 0.8” and compared it to 1 in the second line, the result is still false, saying 0.85 is greater than 1. I had to define it as self.R_obs to avoid the problem.
